Hey, everyone. So in the last video we went over
the POPs model and the message broker for MQTT protocol.
Here, we're going to go ahead and show you
a more general high level overview of how to use those within AWS IoT and SDK.
So just a quick definition.
When we refer to AWS IoT,
we're referring to the service that AWS has.
However, the way you connect your devices to the cloud.
The SDK however, is what you're going to install on
your different devices in order to communicate with the cloud.
So the SDK does have a bunch of different languages.
For instance, C, Python,
JavaScript and all that stuff,
so choose the language that you feel is best fit.
And there is an SDK available for the Dragon Board?
Yes.
So here we have a bunch of different IoT devices,
we just want go into what exactly an IoT device is.
What the image here shows the Amazon button called the Amazon badge shop.
Amazon sells these, and each button you can map to a product you're using in the house.
For example your toilet paper,
you buy a button and stick it next to your toilet paper,
you run out, just hit the button.
Amazon knows you're ordering a toilet paper,
and it delivers to your house.
And there are some safety measures in there,
so if you get it ten times,
they don't send you like a huge roll of toilet papers.
It has a certain mechanism,
it will send you only once a month and so on.
These buttons are really cheap,
you can buy these and map it to Amazon products.
However, you can do your own thing with it too.
As Ara mentioned, there's Amazon AWS IoT,
you can buy these buttons,
make it do your own custom thing.
This is outside of the Dragon Board, so you buy this button,
stick it in your house, you hit send,
it goes to Amazon Cloud.
You can it do whatever you want.
I don't know, start your Tesla.
Maybe one year you just put this button that goes to the Amazon Cloud,
Amazon Cloud stocked that Tesla services and
then it sends a message to your car or honk the horn, anything like that.
I would highly recommend it, you guys.
It's really cheap, so that could be one off your capstone ideas.
Buy this button and do something cool with it.
And the cool thing about the button is when you press it,
it just sends a signal like this button has been pressed.
So depending on what you want to do with that specific event with that specific device,
you can do whatever you want on the cloud.
Now let's see if you do want to do something more complicated.
Like in the future I believe, a modular lesson,
we have a project where we gather temperature data,
light data and was that sound data?
Yes. We have a project which you will see later on.
Of course we'll give all the source code for it,
where we use the AWS IoT SDK to get temperature,
light and the other sensor data,
and stream it in real time to the cloud, Amazon Cloud.
And you can see the data being plotted dynamically as we get the data.
So one way to use sensor data coming in using the MQTT protocol.
It's either you can send something really simple or something complicated,
but once it's into the cloud,
you can do whatever you want with it depending on the data.
So this is just a quick overview of how IoT service is,
or works on the servers.
Every single time your IoT devices send data,
they'll connect to the AWS IoT which is your quote unquote,
message broker and depending on which type of data.
So let's say you press a button for toilet paper,
you might execute a lambda function,
which will go on and connect you to maybe the Amazon store,
buy you the toilet, paper and ship it to you directly.
Or you might want to let's say,
get your temperature data from your Dragon Board,
send it upstream, maybe store it inside of a database like DynamoDB.
You can do whatever you want,
and maybe you can also do multiple things at once.
Let's say every single time you press a button not only
does it buy you products from Amazon,
but you might also send a push notification to your roommates saying,
"Hey, I'm buying toilet paper."
You can do a bunch of different stuff once the data is on the cloud.
This is another quick overview of
the architecture and just some cool things that you can do with the IoT services,
such as device shadows whenever your devices do go offline.
But for the most part, we're not going to go too much into that.
Real quick, I'm going to go over to the screen and I'm going to show you
a quick example of how this AWS IoT works,
and then we'll go ahead and look at the SDK.
So we will be going over a more hands on experience for IoT service in a different video.
So what I want to focus on here is,
how publisher subscriber model works.
So you're currently logged into the Amazon panel?
Yes.
On the AWS IoT service right?
Yes. If you look here somewhere,
there is this AWS IoT right here.
I want to go ahead and click that.
And on the sidebar I'm going over to test.
This is a kind of a test broker that we can go in and play with.
First off, I'm going to subscribe to topics,
so let's say, toilet paper.
And I'm going to go ahead and subscribe to that topic.
And on the left hand side,
this new area appeared,
and then I'm going to go ahead and create a new topic, let's say food.
That is a new topic.
Now let's say I have a Dragon Board and I sent a request saying we need toilet paper.
And we have our device configured to go to the toilet paper channel.
When we publish to that topic,
we'll notice that they did receive our message.
Go here, right here.
Now, if we have some sort of rule on our server,
if it sees that message,
it can go out and execute whatever we want it to do.
And notice how food did not get that information at
all even though it's sent through the same location.
Let's say and send food, we need cereal and milk let's say,
publish to that topic,
then only food will get that message.
This broker helps you differentiate between different topics,
so different devices can publish to different topics.
And it cannot just be one, maybe,
you can do 10 different topics at once if you want.
That panel you're showing at the bottom is
mimicking the functionality of the client SDK right?
Yes. Yes.
This is, you want to send it from the SDK.
Yes. Well, every single time you publish that's mimicking the.
You do it from the Dragon Board.
Yes. Exactly. So we'll go on and do a more hands on one in
a later module which showcases how exactly you do do it from the Dragon Board.
But we'll just show you some example code from the GitHub repositories on how to do that.
Now, we're moving away from the cloud and moving over to the client side.
Right here I'm looking at the Python SDK for AWS.
You can use any language you want C, Java, whatnot.
Go ahead and choose whatever fits best for your project.
But some of our projects do use the Python,
so I'm just going to go ahead and look at an example of how easy it is to just
connect to the server.
Here you have this complicated block of code here.
All this does, is it just set some settings,
maybe your credentials and all that stuff.
So don't worry too much about this section we'll go over that later.
Here is where the meat happens.
So every single time you have a device,
you want to connect to the server,
then maybe you want to publish some data,
maybe even want to start listening to some data.
Let's say, instead of my topic, it was toilet paper.
So I'm going to subscribe to the toilet paper topic,
maybe my other roommates already sent some messages there.
And then I'm going to go ahead and say,
"Hey we need some toilet paper".
So you can do that through these two simple lines.
And then there's a cool thing where you can actually leave it.
Maybe you don't want to keep getting notified of these events,
you can go ahead and unsubscribe from that.
If your device needs to go offline,
just call a disconnect function.
Here, we are showcasing simple messages.
But imagine if, let's say,
you have that Dragon Board data with all the sensor data,
instead of sending that simple message,
you can go ahead and inside that my payload,
send that data through there.
It's simple lines, or
simple lines of code where you can do
some powerful stuff once it's connected to the cloud.